# ML5G-PHY-ChannelEstimation-ICARUS
This repository contains the source codes and the description of the proposed solution to the challenge [ML5H-PHY [channel estimation]](https://research.ece.ncsu.edu/ai5gchallenge/) by the team ICARUS. The members of ICARUS are Özlem Tuğfe Demir, Cenk M. Yetis, Emil Björnson, and Pontus Giselsson.

Sparse Bayesian Learning for Site-Specific Hybrid MIMO Channel Estimation
==================


The package contains the description file for the proposed sparse Bayesian learning method and source codes based on Matlab.


## Abstract 

To tackle this challenging problem, we propose
mainly a sparse Bayesian learning algorithm to exploit the
sparsity of the channel. We utilize the pattern-coupling concept
to model possible block sparsity patterns among the consecutive
angle-of-arrivals (AoAs) and angle-of-departures (AoDs). As a
first step, we obtain the time-domain channels from the provided
training dataset by inverse FFT and remove the negligibly small
taps. Then, we apply the algorithm to the true time-domain
channels to obtain the sparse representations. Using joint angular
distribution that is learned from training data, we refine the
grids and pattern-coupling relations in testing stage in an aim to
improve the channel estimation quality.


## Content 

The description of the system model and the details of the proposed solution are provided in the file "description_ICARUS.pdf". The code "learning_angular_distribution.m" runs the algorithm to estimate the sparse vectors from the training data by loading the training data that is provided in (https://research.ece.ncsu.edu/ai5gchallenge/). The same code saves the estimated

contains 10 simulation figures, numbered 2-11. Figure 2 is generated by the Matlab script Fig2_comparison_analytical_simulation.m. Figure 3 is generated by the Matlab script Fig3_NMSE_symmetric.m. Figure 4 is generated by the Matlab script Fig4_NMSE_optimal_power_symmetric.m by properly selecting the crosstalk parameter. Figure 5 and Figure 6 are generated by the Matlab scripts Fig5_NMSE_asymmetric.m and Fig6_NMSE_optimal_power_asymmetric.m, respectively. Figures 7, 8, and 9 are generated by the Matlab script Fig7_8_9_SE. Figure 10 and Figure 11 are generated by the Matlab scripts Fig10_channel_gain and Fig11_crosstalk, respectively. The package also contains the Matlab scripts backward_crosstalk.m, nmse_evaluate_m, nmse_optimize.m, se_evaluate.m, and se_optimize.m that are MATLAB functions used by some of the scripts.



## Acknowledgements

The work of all team members was supported by the Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Systems and Software Program (WASP) funded by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. 
